DAG Factory Docs (#3919)
astronomer/docs: astro/dag-factory.md

---
sidebar_label: 'DAG Factory'
title: 'Use DAG Factory to create DAGs'
id: dag-factory

> description: "Learn how to dynamically convert YAML files into Apache Airflow DAGs with the DAG Factory, an open source project that makes creating DAGs easy.

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Learn how to dynamically convert YAML files into Apache Airflow DAGs with the DAG Factory, an open source project that makes creating DAGs easy."
```

## Step 3: Create a DAG using DAG Factory

1. Create a YAML configuration file in your Airflow project. The following YAML file shows an example configuration file.

```YAML
example_dag1:
  default_args:
    owner: 'example_owner'
    start_date: 2018-01-01  # or '2 days'
    end_date: 2018-01-05
    retries: 1
    retry_delay_sec: 300
  schedule_interval: '0 3 * * *'
  concurrency: 1
  max_active_runs: 1
  dagrun_timeout_sec: 60
  default_view: 'tree'  # or 'graph', 'duration', 'gantt', 'landing_times'
  orientation: 'LR'  # or 'TB', 'RL', 'BT'
  description: 'this is an example dag!'
  on_success_callback_name: print_hello
  on_success_callback_file: /usr/local/airflow/dags/print_hello.py
  on_failure_callback_name: print_hello
  on_failure_callback_file: /usr/local/airflow/dags/print_hello.py
  tasks:
    task_1:
      operator: airflow.operators.bash_operator.BashOperator
      bash_command: 'echo 1'
    task_2:
      operator: airflow.operators.bash_operator.BashOperator
      bash_command: 'echo 2'
      dependencies: [task_1]
    task_3:
      operator: airflow.operators.bash_operator.BashOperator
      bash_command: 'echo 3'
      dependencies: [task_1]

```

> 2. Create a Python file with the `dag_factory.clean_dags(globals())` and `dag_factory.generate_dags(globals())` commands. This Python script generates DAGs from your YAML file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Step 3. Create DAG Factory file to convert YAML into Python

All YAML files in your `dags` directory must be parsed and converted into Python in order to run on Apache Airflow. In this step, you will create a DAG Factory file in your Astro project that includes the conversion logic. You only need to do this once and do not need a separate DAG Factory file for each of your YAML files.

1. In the `dags` directory of your Astro project, create an empty Python file called `dag_factory.py`.
2. Copy the following contents into your empty Python file. This file represents an Apache Airflow DAG file and includes two commands that convert each of your YAML file(s) into DAGs.
```
